All right, so one of the things we wanna
do with this project is improve upon our
mobile navigation.
I'm still a fan of these very simple ones
that just work when we go into them.
So if you have an intrinsic one
like this that I'll be a fan of it.
But a lot of the time the design you
get will have a hamburger menu in it.
So we need to do a little bit of work to
actually make that into an actual thing.
And so at this stage to do this, because
it's a pretty big feature that we're gonna
be implementing, I would actually suggest
in our source control creating a new
branch instead of just working
directly from the files we have now.
It does mean, if you blow things up,
it's actually easy just to
revert back to where you were.
And it's also a really
common way to work in.
When you're doing an actual job,
you're given this one feature to work on,
you'll make a branch
from the main project.
You sort of work on that one feature,
and then when it's finished,
you pull it back into the main project.
So it's exactly what we're
gonna look at how to do.
Since we're doing it all just with
the VS code options we have here,
there's a couple of different
ways you can create a branch.
One of them is going just in the menu,
in the source control here,
branch, and you can do a create branch.
Another way you can do it is
all the way at the bottom,
there's a little button that says main
on it, and you can click on that and
you get this new option that comes up.
Or you can do a CTRL+SHIFT+P and
just write branch,
and you'll see a get
create branch pops up.
All of them are giving
you the same options.
One thing that's important is you get
a new branch or a new branch from.
In this case, we just want a new branch.
We're working off of Main.
If you had a whole bunch of
different branches going on,
you might wanna pinpoint a specific one.
In this specific case, we don't have any
sub branches or anything to worry about,
nothing too complicated.
So we can just do create new branch, and
it's gonna ask you for what the name is.
I'm just gonna write hamburger menu.
We wanna say what what we're building,
that's what it is.
And then you get a nice
big publish branch button.
So we can click on that, and
we now are working on a new branch.
One thing VS code doesn't make super
obvious is what branch you're working on.
So you do wanna pay attention
down here at the bottom.
As you can see it says hamburger-menu.
And if I click on it, now there's
those two branches that are there,
my hamburger-menu and the main.
So you just wanna pay attention,
don't forget,
you've made a new branch along the way.
So we're gonna focus on this branch,
finish the work we're doing on it,
then go back to the main once
everything is done here.
So now that we're in our new branch,
we wanna start updating our navigation.
The first thing we need to think
about is what we have now,
which is just something that looks
similar to what we have here.
This is a simplified version.
We have a wrapper, the site inner and all
of that, but these are the main pieces we
have in there, which we have the logo,
we have our primary navigation.
And we're going to need something
that is able to change that.
We need a button to activate and we need
to be able to hide our navigation and
all of those things.
So to do that, the first thing I'm
gonna suggest is we can come here,
get out of our source control,
go back into our index,
and go find that navigation, right there.
So in between my nav that I have here and,
yeah,
right before my primary navigation.
So in between the image and the nav,
I'm gonna come in with a button.
The thing with the button
is I've given you an image.
So the image is the assets and
the hamburger, and
we could save that, we can go take a look.
We have a button, can't really see
it too well right now because it's
a white hamburger, but
we have the button that's there.
Once again though, I do wanna just mention
that some people are gonna be using
assistive technologies or other things,
and if they come across this,
they don't really know what it is.
They have a button and they have
no context to what this button is.
It will say button to them, the screen
reader will tell them they're on a button.
They'll say there's an image in here,
but it doesn't really do much.
You could give some
context through the alt.
What I see a lot of people do here
is hamburger or hamburger-menu.
That also doesn't really
give much context.
Imagine something's reading to you, and it
says button hamburger, image of hamburger,
or image hamburger, you're gonna
think it's actually a hamburger.
It's kind of useless.
So I would actually suggest leaving this
alt blank, so we're saying that it's just
a decorative piece of text,
or, sorry, a decorative image.
And in that button, we could come in and
do our span with a class
of visually hidden,
which we've already used before, and
in there we can just write menu.
>> Kevin Powell: So
if an assistive technology comes along or
if the hamburger menu fails to
load your CSS fails to load,
your JavaScript probably
won't be working then either.
So you have bigger problems, but we have
some context that's coming in there.
So if I take that class off,
you can see the word menus there.
So it's just this hidden
little piece of text, again,
to give extra context to what
that button is actually doing.
And it's very easy to put that in there.
The other thing that we wanna do is
actually add some context to what this
purpose of this button is.
Cuz right now, if they come across this
button, they know it's a menu, but
there's no connection to
anything whatsoever right now.
We can connect this with JavaScript,
we're gonna have to do that anyway,
but on this button,
we can also add an area controls.
And on there, we can say that
this controls our primary-nav,
I'm gonna do it shorter than
primary navigation, and
to be able to make that connection,
then I do need to come on the nav and
write ID is equal to primary.
>> Kevin Powell: Nav.
So now,
from an accessibility point of view,
we've connected button to the navigation.
There's one more missing piece of context,
though, is by default,
this is going to be a closed menu,
and then we're gonna be clicking and
it's gonna be opening and
clicking and it's gonna be closing.
And we wannna be able to pass
that information through as well,
because if somebody's
keyboard navigating or
using an assistive technology to read
the site to them and they get to the menu.
If it tells them that it's open or closed
is a really important piece of information
cuz then they know if they hit
if it tells them it's closed,
they know if they hit tab again,
it's gonna go somewhere else.
Whereas if it's open, they know it's going
to bring them inside the navigation and
they're gonna be able to access
the links that are in there.
So a very easy thing to
add while we're in here.
Sorry, on our button,
we have the area controls primary-nav, and
we're gonna do an area
expanded is equal to false,
because by default the navigation
will be closed at smaller screens.
So I'm just gonna put
that on multiple lines.
Prettier might not like that.
A lot of the time when we're doing
accessibility things, the best way to have
good accessibility is just using
the correct semantic code along the way.
So using your headings properly,
using your main, footer, nav,
all of these different types of things.
When it comes to interactive elements,
a lot of the time there are these
extra steps that you do wanna be able to
take to or you will have to take just to
make it accessible when those
interactions are actually happening.
Cuz just having the visual change
on the screen isn't always enough.
It's not always easy to
find this information.
But if you just look up a11y, which is the
short term for accessibility, and then put
in the component you're building, if it's
tabs, if it's a navigation menu, if it's
a carousel and you search for that just
a11y put in the thing you're building.
You'll get a lot of guides that are giving
you best practices on how to build
those and the types of things you'll
have to look out for with area.
Cuz generally no area is the best area,
but with interaction and
other things like that, you'll often
have to add a little bit in there.